Well, let's start exploring belted and unbelted concepts in code, so we need another test class here.
We'll call this one test generic bandit.
Carolyn.
We've got a generic class, they're not bounded, called generic, not bounded, and we can see Sparerib
would declare a in 14, but we've got to constructor's a zero and a one argument's constructed.
They're pretty straightforward.
We've got another class here, generic class band that this time the class is bounded by the class number.
You can say that via the angle brackets online 30.
We're extending the bar that's demonstrating now that the generic class and its methods that you can
see on screen there now make available numbers members to any code using that type T.
If we go down, we've got another class here, generic interface bound.
You can say that using an upper bound of the comparable interface, specifically the code in the brackets
along 44 T extends comparable.
And you can see that we've got to do something there.
So that's demonstrating is that this generic class and its methods, they have the comparable methods
available to the code using type T.
You can see an example of that in the method.
And then we've got our public class test, generic ballot.
This is demonstrating, creating instances of each of the above classes and frankly, some methods in
those instances.
So this using the Umbanda generic class, the types can be totally disparate, so you can see their.
Sixty six below that, we've got instances of the generic class banded by number this time, so I can
see that we've got some instances of using the generic class bounded by a number using quite an integer.
And those examples look at some instances of the using the generic class bounded by comparable and I
can say with passing dates.
There is also an example here on line eighty eight, which is an idea that you can't pass a typed generic
class to a generic class as a type argument.
And what we're doing on this line is we've passed a generic class bound typed with integer to the generic
class, generic, not bounded.
But let's run this.
Let me say, we have the of an apple.
But let's put in some more code here and paste it down here.
Of the main method.
They can say by train that both of these statements are posted in have produced compile errors, so
firstly line 91 billion is not a number and therefore doesn't satisfy the upper bound of Teagues number
in a generic class bound.
You can see it no, they're.
And it's telling us as much want to hover over a top perimeter?
Berlin is not within its should extend javadoc.
No.
The second example, hover over that tight perimeter javadoc length of exception is not within its bounds.
It should implement Javadoc lameduck comparable obviously relates to our generic interface pound class
40 44, which he can say he was set to have an upper bound of comparable.
So let's do those two things that I've added.
What I'm going to do is go right down to the bottom and add this.
At this class definition, it's an out class.
And I'm just going to accept that import.
And say we've got classification and ego brackets extends no aposhian, comparable ampersand serializable,
so then obviously Kampala's but if I change this to move no to the end to the end of the list there.
No, suddenly we've got an error here in a hover over that, you get the less than helpful compiler
error interface expected here.
But really, no, a class must be listed as the first type in the exchange clause, noting that there's
an option, that intelligence giving is here to move that Java, that number to the beginning of the
band's list of top parameters.
So it's sort of knowing that there's a problem there.
But the reason this is happening is explained by the Oracle Java specification.
And I'll quote part of it, The order of types in a bound is only significant in that the erasure of
a top variable is determined by the first top in its bound and then a class type or top variable.
They only appear in the first position.
So I can come up here, I can click on this, that that puts it back to how it was before.
Let's add another classiness posted in some demonstrating with this one that the upper bound declaration
can include a generic class or interface.
If I revised this slightly down here on the next line, just to make it a bit easier to read for another
ampersand comparable.
Brackets short.
Now, once again, I've introduced a compiler error this time if we hover over a duplicate class, as
you can see here, Javadoc Lanctot comparable.
This is once again explained by Oracle's Java specification.
Are quite a tight variable, must not at the same time be a subtype of two interface types which are
different parameterization of the same generic interface or a compile time error occurs in this case
going back to the code.
We've got different parameterization of the comparable interface.
Let's change this declaration completely and go back.
Rats are going to eat all that and just commer comparable.
So what's this declaration specifying now and what does it compile, because obviously we haven't got
an error here now?
I have stated earlier that the Times declared must be separated by a single aposhian, but don't let
this declaration for you.
It's a valid declaration, but it doesn't mean a single top argument is limited to subclasses of no
and must implement the compatible endophytes.
Instead, it's declaring two top parameters for this class.
The first team, with an upper bound of the class number and the second comparable was for go back and
make a change to this by putting in some code for the body.
I can say by doing that, this doesn't compile.
And it was our method comparable used in the context of this class is a type parameter and in its current
context has nothing to do with the comparable interface you could set comparable to any type you want,
including types that do not implement comparable.
It's deceptive and hard to catch.
So you can expect something like this as an exam question.
Let's just remove this last class from our code so that everything compiles.
What are the above examples in the last few videos have shown examples of generic classes with one or
many top perimeter's up, discuss the coding conventions for specifying top parameters, have also shown
you how to declare an upper bound for your top parameter.
In addition, we've talked about the benefits of generic classes as well as the limitations on their
usage.
Before we move on to generic methods.
I want to see if I can clarify what type of Rasiah is, since I referred to it several times.
Generics are introduced to the Jaba language to provide benefits to the programer in the form of titre
type checks at compile time, as well as support for generic programming in the Chevy if they do not
exist.
The process of converting source code, which makes use of generic classes and methods to code executed
in the same fashion as prior to the existing of generics is called type erasure.
Developer does not have to do anything to make type erasure occur or not occur.
It will occur, but knowledge of the limitations imposed by the process is important.
To implement generics, the Java compiler firstly replaces all type parameters in generic classes with
object or bound to the first object type, which would say must be a class if the class is in the list
or could be an interface type that produced bytecode, therefore contains only ordinary classes, interfaces
and methods.
Secondly, the Java compiler inserts typecasts, if necessary, to preserve type safety.
Thirdly, the Java compiler generates bridge methods to preserve polymorphism in extended generic types
and forth.
The Java compiler keeps generics related information as metadata in the bytecode for debugging and reflection
purposes.
I've discussed some of the limitations imposed on generics because of type of a generic class cannot
extend Strobl, you cannot instantiate a parameters type directly, etc. We'll be running across a few
more as we move forward.
But this has been a long series of videos.
So let's end the video here.
And in the next one, I'm going to be explaining generic methods.
So let's move on.